[Matthew 25:14-30](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+25%3A14-30&version=NLT)

It is about the "one thing necessary" (Luke 10:42): the response of trust, of faith in Jesus free acceptance of us by the grace of his death and resurrection. It is in other words, about a faithful, Mary-like waiting upon Jesus himself as the embodiment of the mystery -- and about the danger of substituting some prudent, fretful Martha-like business of our own for that waiting. It is not at all about the rewarding of good works or the punishment of evil ones.

(1) A judgment rendered on faith-in-action, not on the results of faith. God is not a bookkeeper looking for results -- the only bookkeeper is the servant who decided he had to fear a non-existent audit and hid his one talent in the ground.

(2) A jubilation of the Lord's joy at throwing money around -- a divine party. But there will always be dummies who refuse to trust a good thing when it is handed to them on a platter.

(3) The sheer needlessness of fear, the unnecessariness of our ever having to dread God. Jesus parades through his parables pitiful turkeys to shock us into recognizing the stupidity of unfaith. *We spend our lives invoking upon ourselves imagined necessities, creating God in the image of our own fears -- and all the while, he is beating us over the head with the balloon of grace and the styrofoam baseball bat of a vindicating judgment.* There are no lengths to which God won't go to prove there are no restrictions on the joy he wants to share with us.